.TH mango 1 "04-18-2019" "1.00" "simple shell man page"
.SH NAME
\fB Mango (shell)\fR\ - Implementation of a command line interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./mango
.PA COMMAND" "ARGUMENTS
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mango
shell is a simple and practical version of a command line interpreter.
.SS Overview
Mango shell is a command used to get input from a file or from the terminal itself, read it, interpret it, and often execute another process. It is the program run when a user enters the system, therefore the user can directly type commands into the running shell or the commands can be written in a file and that file be executed by the shell.
.SS Invocation
Type in terminal:
.B ./simple_shell
.TP
In interactive mode, a prompt is shown before each command. The shell reads from standard input.
.SS Lexical Structure
This simple shell reads input as lines and reads each word, separated by a whitespace, as an argument.
.SS Commands
In each input line, the first word is taken as the command, the following words are taken as that command's arguments. Only two types of commands are included in this implementation: builtins and executable programs.
.SS Search and Execution
As soon as a command is read, the mango first checks if it's a builtin command, if it is one, the shell will execute it internally and by itself without the need of creating another process. If the command is not a builtin then the shell will treat it as a normal program and look for it in the file system, the shell will execute the program, passing the arguments and the envionment to the program. Mango will create another process and execute that command there.
.SS Path Search
If a command is not a builtin, two thing might happen:
.IP
1. Commands starting with a slash are executed.
.IP
2. The simple shell searches each directory in the PATH variable untill it finds a match with the command from input.
.SS Builtins
The following are the builtins implemented in this simple shell:
.TP
.IP \fBenv\fB
Prints all the environment variables and it's contents.
.TP
.IP \fBexit\fB
Exits the simple shell
.SH SEE ALSO
.I sh(1)

.SH CODE STYLE
Betty Style

.SH AUTHORS
Marc Cavigli, Sofía Cheung